---
layout: post
title: Grant Blog #1
---

#Starting Up
When originally assigned this grant project, I was at a loss for what topic I would choose.  As I’ve mentioned in my previous blogs, I have multiple career interests and most of my days are filled searching for something that will fulfill at least most of my wants.  Oftentimes, when I’m given free reign in large projects like this one, I try to choose a topic that aligns with one of my career path options.  However, this time I decided to abandon my endless questioning and choose something much simpler in my life - my job at Starbucks!

I’ve always been interested in nutrition-based health, and caffeine is one of the most argued substances out there.  In 2019, the National Coffee Association released a study stating that 64% of Americans aged 18 years and older drank coffee everyday.  That number may sound alarming, but the United States only ranks 25th in the world for coffee consumption per capita, with an average consumption of 4.2 kg per person per year.

As a health-conscious person who may be a little too obsessed with what goes into my body, I found this information intriguing.  The gears started turning in my mind, and I began to create an idea of an interactive coffee database, including a timeline of coffee consumption in the United States, coffee recipes of the past and today, and consumption-based ranks of countries, domestic regions, age groups, etc.  I figured that only including the health side of things would make my project too specific, and that adding in as much information as possible would make it more accessible to a larger audience.

#Editing the Plan
However, after meeting with Dr. Stover, I was encouraged to choose just one of my project elements to make it more manageable.  Upon reflection, I realized that if I had gone through with my original plan, then my project would have turned out similar to Selfiecity (the project I chose for my review earlier this semester) - overwhelming data with too many interactive tools, and a loose agenda.

I ended up choosing the coffee consumption timeline with the thought that it would provide a more reflective space for my audience than a bunch of different ranks and charts.  Instead of serving as a platform for a bunch of statistics, I’d like for my project to encourage the audience to reflect on what they have done to contribute to the trends presented, how the role of coffee has changed over time, and maybe consider changing their habits one way or another.

#The Environmental Scan
The process of writing my environmental scan has been a bit more difficult than I anticipated at the start of my project.  Unfortunately, the Digital Humanities field is lacking in projects based on coffee, or food in general.  This surprises me, since so many Digital Humanities projects are based on historical events or themes, and cultural menus provide such a vivid picture of how people lived and even what they valued in a certain time period.

As I searched deeper and deeper for projects even loosely related to mine, I became frustrated.  Eventually I realized that my standalone project could bring light to the lack of nutrition or food based projects.  In a way, my scarce environmental scan will show the importance of my creation.  You can see this progression of frustration to enlightenment in my tweets below.

Thus far, I have found only one project that has a similar theme to mine.  What America Ate focuses on how ordinary people bought, cooked, ate, and thought about food in the 1930s, aiming to reveal previously hidden aspects of American life during a time of vast economic and social change.  Though this project provides historical resources instead of statistics, the intent seems to be the same: taking a look at simple food trends and gathering information on how Americans lived during that time frame.

#Moving Forward
As I continue working on my grant, I look forward to fleshing out my broader ideas, as well as digging deep into the logistics of the project.  I don’t know a lot about the timeline software that I plan to use, so I’m excited to learn more about it during the grant budget portion.  Overall, I’m happy with my project plan and its purpose, and I feel much more motivated by this assignment than any of the others throughout the semester!
