---
layout: post
title: About Me
---

Hi! My name is Sarah Kay Biser, and I’m a trumpet-playing health-foodie.  Confused?  You’re not alone.  Let me explain…

I am a senior Trumpet Performance major at Christopher Newport University in Newport News, Virginia.  I entered college as a music major because I was passionate about the trumpet, and sharing my musical interest with younger ones.

### Trumpeting
In my time at CNU, I have enjoyed playing trumpet in numerous university ensembles, such as the Marching Captains, Wind Ensemble, Jazz Ensemble, Jazz Combo, and Pep Band.  Additionally, I play and sing in Soul Intent – an oldies/beach music band located in the Hampton Roads.

During my sophomore year I held a research apprentice position under Dr. Kelly Rossum.  Through this experiential research experience, I learned first-hand how to formally rehearse, schedule, and perform with a professional trumpet.  Our final performance took place at the International Trumpet Guild Conference in Miami, Florida in July, 2019.  [Here is a video montage of our trip!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K-kuj-gcS2U)

### Nutrition
In the winter break of my junior year, I discovered another growing passion for health and wellness – specifically healthy eating.  I have personally experienced the wonders of low-sugar and processed diets, and I love gaining knowledge on what food the body naturally desires.  I find the most joy in meal-prepping, reading, and sharing with others when it comes to the nutrition field.

### The Future...
During the next two years, I will be taking prerequisites for a Master’s Degree in Nutrition and Dietetics that could not be attained during my music degree.  Though I do not know exactly what the far future holds, I do hope for a life full of sharing music and nutrition with others.

### Free Time
I grew up in the beautiful Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, and I absolutely love the outdoors as a direct result.  In my free time, you'll find me hiking, hammocking, running trails, kayaking - anything active!
